Design team output (#99)
ietf-wg-masque/draft-ietf-masque-quic-proxy: draft-ietf-masque-quic-proxy.md

Multiple streams can map to the same target-facing socket, but a
single stream cannot be mapped to multiple target-facing sockets.

> Each stream MUST also be associated with a single Packet Transform.

Reviewer: Technically, forwarding mode is always additional to proxying mode.  The long header packets have to be sent in proxying mode anyway, so proxying mode is available and could be used for some short header packets as well.

> Each stream MUST also be associated with a single Packet Transform.

Reviewer 2: Agreed, then implicitly, mapping to "forwarding" means that long header packets are proxyed, and short header packets are forwarded.

capsules.

> The "Proxy-QUIC-Forwarding" is an Item Structured Header {{!RFC8941}}. Its

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"Proxy-QUIC-Forwarding" is an Item Structured Header {{!RFC8941}}. Its
```

value MUST be a Boolean.

If the client wants to enable QUIC packet forwarding for this request, it sets
the value to "?1". If it doesn't want to enable forwarding, but instead only
provide information about QUIC Connection IDs for the purpose of allowing
the proxy to share a target-facing socket, it sets the value to "?0".

The client MUST add an "accept-transform" parameter whose value is an
`sf-string` containing the supported packet transforms ({{packet-transforms}})

> in order of descending preference, separated by commas.

Reviewer 3: We probably also need to specify what happens if the accept-transform is not present or empty...?

Reviewer: As specified, this parameter is simply mandatory.  We could certainly change that if we're willing to specify a default transform.  IIRC, we decided to leave the question of defaults to the WG.

Author: I think it's useful to say what a server does if it gets a header without the parameter.

```suggestion
in order of descending preference, separated by commas. If the proxy receives a
"Proxy-QUIC-Forwarding" header without the "accept-transform" parameters, it
MUST ignore the header and respond as if the client had not sent the
"Proxy-QUIC-Forwarding" header.
```

> If it supports QUIC packet forwarding, it sets the value to "?1"; otherwise,
> it sets it to "?0".

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If it supports QUIC packet proxying in forwarded mode, it sets the value to "?1"; otherwise,
it sets it to "?0".
```

A proxy MAY additionally add ECN markings to signal congestion being experienced
on the proxy itself.

# Packet Transforms

A packet transform is the procedure applied to packets as they are sent on the
client-proxy link, and its inverse applied on receipt.  Simple transforms can
be modelled as a function as follows:

Inputs:

1. A QUIC short header packet (after Connection ID remapping).
1. The mode (forward or inverse).
1. The direction (upstream or downstream).
1. Any configuration info negotiated at startup.

Output:

* A UDP payload that conforms to the QUIC invariants {{?RFC8999}} and does not
   modify the Connection ID.

More complex transform behaviors could have internal state, but no such transforms
are presented here.

Packet transforms are identified by an IANA-registered name, and negotiated in
the HTTP headers (see {{client-behavior}}).  This document defines two initial
transforms: "null" and "scramble".

> > QUESTION: Should one or both of these be Mandatory To Implement?

Reviewer: Mandatory for whom?  I find the idea of making them both mandatory for both clients and proxies to be slightly strange.  Perhaps you are thinking of making them both mandatory for proxies, so that clients can choose to offer only one?

## "null"

The "null" transform does not modify the packet in any way.  When this transform
is in use, a global passive adversary can trivially correlate pairs of packets
that crossed the forwarder, providing a compact proof that a specific client
was communicating to a specific target.

> Use of this transform is NOT RECOMMENDED if "scramble" can be deployed.

Reviewer: I can certainly imagine that we say "scramble" is MTI for proxies, but clients can choose whether they want the extra protection.

> Use of this transform is NOT RECOMMENDED if "scramble" can be deployed.

Reviewer 2: If we let clients the choice not to use the additional protection, then I suggest making scramble and null/identity MTI by the proxies, and recommend that clients use scramble or alternative method of their choice to protect their communication.

A proxy MAY additionally add ECN markings to signal congestion being experienced
on the proxy itself.

# Packet Transforms

A packet transform is the procedure applied to packets as they are sent on the
client-proxy link, and its inverse applied on receipt.  Simple transforms can
be modelled as a function as follows:

Inputs:

1. A QUIC short header packet (after Connection ID remapping).

> 1. The mode (forward or inverse).

Reviewer 4: Would it be clearer to rename this to encode and decode?

Reviewer: Maybe "send" vs. "receive"?

Author: I think encode/decode is probably clearest.
```suggestion
1. The mode (encode or decode).
```

> 1. The direction (upstream or downstream).

Reviewer 4: We should define the terms "upstream" and "downstream" before using them

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The direction (client to proxy or proxy to client).
```

Author: ```suggestion
1. The direction (client-to-proxy or proxy-to-client).
```

> 1. Any configuration info negotiated at startup.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Any configuration information negotiated at startup.
```

Output:

* A UDP payload that conforms to the QUIC invariants {{?RFC8999}} and does not
  modify the Connection ID.

More complex transform behaviors could have internal state, but no such transforms
are presented here.

Packet transforms are identified by an IANA-registered name, and negotiated in
the HTTP headers (see {{client-behavior}}).  This document defines two initial
transforms: the null transform and the scramble transform.

## The null transform {#null-transform}

The null transform does not modify the packet in any way.  When this transform
is in use, a global passive adversary can trivially correlate pairs of packets
that crossed the forwarder, providing a compact proof that a specific client
was communicating to a specific target.

The null transform is identified by the value "null" {{iana-transforms}}.

Use of this transform is NOT RECOMMENDED if the scramble transform can be

> deployed.

Reviewer 3: Shouldn't say a bit more here? Like it also depends on the expected attacker abilities in the deployed scenario and the security requirements of the use case...?

Reviewer 3: Or do we really need normative language here?

## The scramble transform {#scramble-transform}

The scramble transform implements length-preserving unauthenticated
re-encryption of QUIC packets while preserving the QUIC invariants.  When

> the scramble transform is in use, a global passive adversary cannot use the packet contents

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the scramble transform is in use, a global passive adversary cannot use the packet contents
before and after the scramble transform is applied by the proxy
```

Author: ```suggestion
the scramble transform is in use, a global passive adversary cannot simply compare the packet
contents on both sides of the proxy
```

to link the client and target.  However, the scramble transform does not defend against
analysis of packet sizes and timing, nor does it protect privacy against an
active attacker.

Deployments that implement the version of the scramble transform defined in this
document MUST use the value "scramble-dt". The finalized version is expected
to use the reserved value "scramble" {{iana-transforms}}.

The scramble transform is initialized using a 32-byte random symmetric key.

> When offering or selecting this transform, the client and server MUST each
> generate the key that they will use to encrypt scrambled packets and add it to the
> Proxy-QUIC-Transform header in an `sf-binary` parameter named "scramble-key".

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When offering or selecting this transform, the client and server each
generate the key that they will use to encrypt scrambled packets and MUST add it to the
Proxy-QUIC-Transform header in an `sf-binary` parameter named "scramble-key".
```

Reviewer 3: Also we need to specify what to do when the scramble-kay parameter is missing.

1. Encrypt `iv` with the block cipher: `encrypted_iv = AES-ECB(k2, iv)`.
1. Produce the output packet as:\\
   `header | cid | encrypted_iv | ctr_output[1:]`.

The inverse transform operates as follows:

1. Decrypt the AES-CTR initialization vector:\\
   `iv = AES-ECB-inv(k2, packet[L+1:L+17])`.
1. Compute the other variables exactly as in the forward transform.
   (AES-CTR encryption and decryption are identical.)
1. Produce the output: `header | cid | iv | ctr_output[1:]`.

The encryption keys used in this procedure do not depend on the packet contents,
so each party only needs to perform AES initialization once for each connection.

NOTE: The security of this arrangement relies on every short-header QUIC packet
containing a distinct 16 bytes following the Connection ID.  This is true
for the original ciphersuites of QUICv1, but it is not guaranteed by the QUIC
Invariants. Future ciphersuites and QUIC versions could in principle produce
packets that are too short or repeat the values at this location. When using the
scramble transform, clients MUST NOT offer any configuration that could
cause the client or target to violate this requirement.

> # Example

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Examples
```

A proxy MAY additionally add ECN markings to signal congestion being experienced
on the proxy itself.

# Packet Transforms

> A packet transform is the procedure applied to packets as they are sent on the
> client-proxy link, and its inverse applied on receipt.  Simple transforms can
> be modelled as a function as follows:

Author: ```suggestion
A packet transform is the procedure applied to encode packets as they are sent
on the link between the client and proxy, along with the inverse decode step applied
on receipt. Simple transforms can be modeled as a function as follows:
```

that crossed the forwarder, providing a compact proof that a specific client
was communicating to a specific target.

The null transform is identified by the value "null" {{iana-transforms}}.

Use of this transform is NOT RECOMMENDED if the scramble transform can be
deployed.

## The scramble transform {#scramble-transform}

The scramble transform implements length-preserving unauthenticated
re-encryption of QUIC packets while preserving the QUIC invariants.  When
the scramble transform is in use, a global passive adversary cannot use the packet contents
to link the client and target.  However, the scramble transform does not defend against
analysis of packet sizes and timing, nor does it protect privacy against an
active attacker.

Deployments that implement the version of the scramble transform defined in this
document MUST use the value "scramble-dt". The finalized version is expected
to use the reserved value "scramble" {{iana-transforms}}.

The scramble transform is initialized using a 32-byte random symmetric key.
When offering or selecting this transform, the client and server each
generate the key that they will use to encrypt scrambled packets and MUST add it to the

> Proxy-QUIC-Transform header in an `sf-binary` parameter named "scramble-key".

Author: ```suggestion
Proxy-QUIC-Transform header in an `sf-binary` parameter named "scramble-key".
If either side receives a scramble transform without the "scramble-key" parameter,
forwarding mode MUST be disabled.
```

on receipt. Simple transforms can be modeled as a function as follows:

Inputs:

1. A QUIC short header packet (after Connection ID remapping).
1. The mode (encode or decode).
1. The direction (client-to-proxy or proxy-to-client).
1. Any configuration information negotiated at startup.

Output:

* A UDP payload that conforms to the QUIC invariants {{?RFC8999}} and does not
  modify the Connection ID.

More complex transform behaviors could have internal state, but no such transforms
are presented here.

Packet transforms are identified by an IANA-registered name, and negotiated in
the HTTP headers (see {{client-behavior}}).  This document defines two initial
transforms: the null transform and the scramble transform.

## The null transform {#null-transform}

The null transform does not modify the packet in any way.  When this transform
is in use, a global passive adversary can trivially correlate pairs of packets
that crossed the forwarder, providing a compact proof that a specific client
was communicating to a specific target.

The null transform is identified by the value "null" {{iana-transforms}}.

> Use of this transform is NOT RECOMMENDED if the scramble transform can be
> deployed.

Author: ```suggestion
Use of this transform is NOT RECOMMENDED if the scramble transform is supported
by both the client and the proxy. Implementations MAY choose to not implement or
support the "null" transform, depending on the use cases and privacy requirements of
the deployment.
```

Connection ID of 0x62646668 which it will replace with the real Client
Connection ID of 0x31323334. All forwarded mode packets sent by the proxy
will have been modified to contain the Virtual Client Connection ID instead

> of the Client Connection ID, and processed by the negotiated the scramble

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of the Client Connection ID, and processed by the negotiated "scramble"
```

as to limit abuse or use of proxies to launch Denial-of-Service attacks.

Sending QUIC packets by forwarding through a proxy without tunnelling exposes
clients to additional information exposure and deanonymization attacks which
need to be carefully considered. Analysis should consider both passive and
active attackers which may be global or localized to the network paths used

> on each side of a proxy. The following highlights deanonymization risks with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on one side of the proxy. The following sections highlight deanonymization risks with
```

using forwarded mode.

## Passive Attacks

A passive attacker aims to deanonymize a client by correlating traffic across
both sides of the proxy. When using forwarded mode with the null packet
transform (see {{null-transform}}), such correlation is trivial by matching
a subset of QUIC packet bytes as packets enter the proxy on one side and exit
on the other. Packet transforms such as scramble mitigate this by
cryptographically preventing such byte comparisons
(see {{!scramble-transform=scramble-transform}}).

Regardless of which packet transform is used, both tunnelled and forwarded mode
are still vulnerable to size and timing attacks, without the addition of techniques that go beyond the analysis
in this document, such as padding and adding chaff packets.  Such techniques could be supported
in future packet transforms, subject to additional security analysis.

Unlike tunnelled mode where packets are fully encapsulated in the client-to-proxy
connection, clients using forwarded mode to access multiple target servers
over the same client-to-proxy connection expose the number of target servers

> they are communicating with on each connection.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
they are communicating with on each connection to passive attackers than can observe the client-to-proxy traffic.
```

Reviewer 5: Agreed, but s/than/that/

Reviewer 3: Updated comment.

> they are communicating with on each connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
they are communicating with on each connection.  This additional metadata
revealed on each packet simplifies size and timing attacks.
```

on each side of a proxy. The following highlights deanonymization risks with
using forwarded mode.

## Passive Attacks

A passive attacker aims to deanonymize a client by correlating traffic across
both sides of the proxy. When using forwarded mode with the null packet
transform (see {{null-transform}}), such correlation is trivial by matching
a subset of QUIC packet bytes as packets enter the proxy on one side and exit
on the other. Packet transforms such as scramble mitigate this by
cryptographically preventing such byte comparisons
(see {{!scramble-transform=scramble-transform}}).

Regardless of which packet transform is used, both tunnelled and forwarded mode
are still vulnerable to size and timing attacks, without the addition of techniques that go beyond the analysis
in this document, such as padding and adding chaff packets.  Such techniques could be supported
in future packet transforms, subject to additional security analysis.

Unlike tunnelled mode where packets are fully encapsulated in the client-to-proxy
connection, clients using forwarded mode to access multiple target servers
over the same client-to-proxy connection expose the number of target servers

> they are communicating with on each connection to passive attackers that can observe the client-to-proxy traffic.

Author: ```suggestion
they are communicating with on each connection to passive attackers that can
observe the client-to-proxy traffic. This additional metadata revealed on each
packet simplifies size and timing attacks.
```
